---
layout: article
title: "The Notes of Phil Gordon's Little Green Book (Ⅰ)"
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: Notes
tags:
  - poker
  - note
key: blog-2020-07-28-green-book-1
date: 2020-07-28
modify_date: 2020-07-31
---

Chapter 1: The Truth of the Poker Hold'em
<!--more-->


## The Truth of the Poker Hold'em

### The fundamental theorem

Groundbreaking book, The Theory of Poker writes: Every time you play a hand differently from the way you would have played it if you could see all your opponenets' cards, they gain.
It would be always a right decision to bet or raise when you have the best hand, check and fold when you have the worst hand, and call when you have the right pot odds or implied odds to see another card.

### Common Mistakes

- A player overvalues top pair: The average winning hand in Hold'em is two pair. If others take tremendous risks with top pair, you will overbet the pot to put them in a dilemma, or go out of my way to play small pocket pairs against them since I am likely to get paid off in a huge way if you flop a set. !!!(Implied odds)

### Value of aggression

The player I fear most at the table are the players who consistently bet and raise. Checkers and callers are usually not threats.

- Check or call will win only if the best hand is acquired at the showdown.
- Bet or raise will win either opponents may fold or the best is acquired at the showdown.

### Position

If you are in position, you can take advantage of the difficulty of flopping a good hand. Unpaired hole cards (`A-K`, `K-Q`, `6-4`, etc.) will only flop a pair or better about 35% of the time.

### Blinds have a negative expectation

The blinds have a negative expectation primarily because they are the first to act on every round of betting after the flop. The hands the most success playing from out of position are small and medium pocket pairs. Flopping a set is a great way to win a big pot **from any position**. !!!(Implied odds)

### Have a reason to bet

The reason commiting chips into the pot before the flop:
- To steal the blinds. !!!(steal teh blind)
- To set up a delayed steal, call from position and after my opponent misses the flop, then intend to take the pot.
- To isolate a player. !!!(re-raise to Isolate)
- You think you have the best hand.
- If you make a hand, opponents will pay you off in a big way. !!!(Pot odds and Implied Odds)


The reason to bet after the flop:
- There is a reasonable chance opponents will fold.
- You think opponents have a draw, and you want to either make them pay for the privilege of drawing or make them fold a hand that can catch up.
- You think you have the best hand.
- Betting is the only chance to win the pot.

### Changing gears

It is always right to keep opponenets guessing as to what mode you are in by changing from one gear to the next.

### Big hand big pot, small hand small pot

When an opponent is looing to build a big pot by making a large raise, it is more sensible to throw away most of smaller hands so that you have a better chance of sticking around long enough to get into a big pot with a big hand.


## Before the Flop

Use the starting hand tables under the following specific circumstances:

- The first person to voluntarily put money into the pot and to come in for a raise for about three times the big blind.
- Don't know much about opponents.
- All players at the table have an average-size stack
- The blinds are relatively small in realtion to the size of the stacks.

### Study, then look

Never look at cards before it is your turn, because your judgement will be influenced by the hands.

### When first in the pot, raise

I rarely limp (just call the big blind) when I am the first player to voluntarily put chips into the pot before flop. Almost **always raise** if you decide to play your hands as the first person in. Here are five reasons:

- To limit the competition: A raise will result in fewer player seeing the flop. The fewer player in, the easier to analyze player's hands and thus the better chance of winning with hands. 

**Info**: Pocket aces against a random hand wins 85.5% of the time, while wins 55.8% of the time against four hands.
{:.info}

- To take control of the betting: I am informing the other players that I have a high expectation of winning the pot by raising before the flop. Any postflop bets will **back up** my initial portrayal of strength and become the table captain for this hand.

- To better define my opponenets' hands: Let's say if I limp in before the flop, then the players behind me and the big blind just checks, they could literally have any two cards:
  - Check with a strong hand like `K-Q`
  - small hand like `7-2`
  - pocket pairs

&emsp;&emsp;But if I raise before flop and get others called, we can at least, with some confidence, eliminate the worst third or half of opponenets' potential hands.

- To make it more difficult for my opponents to determine the strength of my hand: If I raise with `6-5` suited and with `A-A`, it will effectively conceal the strength of my hand.

- To win the blinds: Opening raise will give a chance to win or steal the blinds without having to see the flop.

**Attention**: Stealing the blinds is critical to the success in poker.
{:.warning}

### Limping

Though always limping is not a good habit, you should keep changing your gear playing cards. There are several situations where limping *might* be preferable to raising beffore the flop:

- Have a very strong hand and suspect the player behind you may raise if you limp: 
    - Opponents with short stacks looking for a chance to all in.
    - Maniacs who are raising every time.
    - The players in the blinds are weak after the flop

**Info**: Limp in from middle or late position against a player in the blind who consistently overbets the pot after the flop. Give up a small amount of preflop expectation for some excellent implied odds after the flop.(!!!Pot Odds and Implied Odds)
{:.info}

- Limping will help to deceive opponents: By occasionally limping in with a good hand, you may be able to train opponents to allow you to limp in with marginal hands. The player burned by this strategy will be less likely to re-raise the next time you limp in.

### Raise the right amount

The table of the raise amount regarding the position and the reasons:

| Position    | Raise Amount |
|-------------|--------------|
| Early       | 2.5x-3.0x    |
| Middle      | 3.0x-3.5x    |
| Late        | 3.5x-4.0x    |
| Small blind | 3.0x         |

- Commit fewer chips when out of the position.
- Smaller raise with a powerhouse hand from early position encourages opponents to play against you.
- Bigger raises from late position put pressure on the remaining players to fold and make it harder for the blinds to re-raise.
- When playing in position, there is always more money in the pot.

**Attention**: Dont vary the size of raise amount with the strength of your hand, because opponents could define your hand by the size of your bet from different multipliers of the raise.
{:.warning}

**Important**: Raising before the flop is to **limit the opponents limping in the pot**. If you find a raise of three times the big blind is ineffective and opponents are still calling your preflop raise, you could **tighten up the starting hand** requirements and **raise** the multiplier.
{:.error}

### Calling limpers

While it

## Others

筹码较深的时候，中小对子的价值会上升，因为构成暗三比较隐蔽，我们说隐含赔率比较好
筹码越深，位置作用越大
建议浅筹码量入池